[25.08] Docs: Stanford Megatron-LM release (#2)
ROCm/Stanford-Megatron-LM: amd-docs/install/stanford-megatron-lm-install.rst

.. meta::
  :description: installing Stanford Megatron-LM for ROCm
  :keywords: installation instructions, Docker, AMD, ROCm, Stanford Megatron-LM

.. _stanford-megatron-lm-on-rocm-installation:

********************************************************************
Stanford Megatron-LM on ROCm installation
********************************************************************

> System requirements

Reviewer: Avoid nested heading if possible.

   .. code-block:: bash

      DATA_PATH=${BASE_DATA_PATH}/my-gpt2_text_document
      CHECKPOINT_PATH=${BASE_DATA_PATH}/checkpoints
      VOCAB_FILE=${BASE_DATA_PATH}/gpt2-vocab.json
      MERGE_FILE=${BASE_DATA_PATH}/gpt2-merges.txt

4. Run the pre-training script

   From the project root directory, execute the following command:

   .. code-block:: bash

      ./examples/pretrain_gpt.sh 

Test the Stanford Megatron-LM installation
======================================================================================

Stanford Megatron-LM unit tests are optional for validating your installation if you used a
prebuilt Docker image from AMD ROCm Docker Hub.

To run unit tests manually and validate your installation fully, follow these steps:

.. note::

   Run the following from the Stanford Megatron-LM root. Running the unit tests requires 8 GPUs as they test for distributed functionality. 

.. code-block:: bash

   torchrun --nproc_per_node=8 -m pytest tests/ 2>&1 | tee "stanford_megatron_lm_tests.log"

Run a Stanford Megatron-LM example
======================================================================================

Recommended example: ``pretraining_gpt.sh``.

> For detailed steps, refer to the `ROCm AI blog <https://rocm.blogs.amd.com/artificial-intelligence/megablocks/README.html>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For detailed steps, refer to the `Efficient MoE training on AMD ROCm: How-to use MegaBlocks on AMD GPUs <https://rocm.blogs.amd.com/artificial-intelligence/megablocks/README.html>`_.
```
